P8105 HW1 - Emma Gorin (emg2237)
================

## Problem 1

This problem is intended to emphasize variable types and introduce
coercion; some awareness of how R treats numeric, character, and factor
variables is necessary for working with these data types in practice.

Create a data frame comprised of:

  - a random sample of size 10 from a standard Normal distribution
  - a logical vector indicating whether elements of the sample are
    greater than 0
  - a character vector of length 10
  - a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor “levels”

<!-- end list -->

``` r
library(tidyverse)

p1_df = tibble(
  vec_numeric = rnorm(10),
  vec_logical = (vec_numeric > 0),
  vec_character = c("does", "it", "matter", "what", "words", "are", "in", "this", "vector", "?"),
  vec_factor = factor(c("ok", "better", "best", "best", "ok", "better", "ok", "best", "better", "better"))
)
```

Try to take the mean of each variable in your dataframe. What works and
what doesn’t?

``` r
mean(p1_df$vec_numeric)
```

    ## [1] 0.5180514

``` r
mean(p1_df$vec_logical)
```

    ## [1] 0.6

``` r
mean(p1_df$vec_character)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(p1_df$vec_character): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(p1_df$vec_factor)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(p1_df$vec_factor): argument is not numeric or logical:
    ## returning NA

    ## [1] NA

*It is possible to take the mean of the numeric and logical variables
(since the logical values are represented as 0 and 1), but not of the
character or factor variables. Taking the mean of character or factor
variables produces a warning and an output of “NA”.*

In some cases, you can explicitly convert variables from one type to
another. Write a code chunk that applies the as.numeric function to the
logical, character, and factor variables (please show this chunk but not
the output). What happens, and why? Does this help explain what happens
when you try to take the mean?

    ##  [1] 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

    ##  [1] 3 2 1 1 3 2 3 1 2 2

In a second code chunk:

  - convert the logical vector to numeric, and multiply the random
    sample by the result
  - convert the logical vector to a factor, and multiply the random
    sample by the result
  - convert the logical vector to a factor and then convert the result
    to numeric, and multiply the random sample by the result

## Problem 2

This problem focuses the use of inline R code, plotting, and the
behavior of ggplot for variables of different types.

Use the code below to download the a package containing the penguins
dataset: install.packages(“palmerpenguins”) (Note – you only need to run
this command once to install the package, and you can do so directly in
the console. This code shouldn’t be executed by your RMarkdown file.)

Next, use the following code (in your RMarkdown file) to load the
penguins dataset:

``` r
# data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
```

Write a short description of the penguins dataset (not the penguins\_raw
dataset) using inline R code, including:

  - the data in this dataset, including names / values of important
    variables
  - (the size of the dataset (using nrow and ncol)
  - the mean flipper length

Make a scatterplot of flipper\_length\_mm (y) vs bill\_length\_mm (x);
color points using the species variable (adding color = … inside of aes
in your ggplot code should help).

Export your first scatterplot to your project directory using ggsave.
